---
category: Devices
title: 'Manifest'

layout: nil
---

Every device manufacturer should provide a manifest specifying the translation from the reporting format for each device to the API standard fields.

The manifest is a json that must include two fields: _'metadata'_ and _'field_mapping'_

# Metadata

The metadata header must include the version of the manifest, the version of the API, a signature, a list of the models that it applies to, and the source data type (json, xml or csv).

`{
  "metadata" : {
    "version" : "1.0.0",
    "signature" : "12345",
    "device_models" : ["GX4001", "GX4002"],
    "source_data_type": "json"
  }
}`

# Field Mappings

The field mapping is an array of elements that describe the translation between a reported value and an API value.

Each of these elements must include:

* _target_field_ - the name of the field inside CDP, using json path.

* _type_ - 'integer', 'long', 'float', 'double', 'date', 'enum', 'location', 'boolean' or 'string'. Indicates the type of the value that will be indexed.

* _core_ - boolean. Indicates that the field is part of the API.

* _indexed_ - boolean. Indicates that the field will be returned when querying the API.

* _pii_ - boolean. Indicates if the field must be considered PII or not.

* _options_ - Only required for 'enum' fields. It's an enumeration of possible values:
`"options" : [0, 1]`

* _valid_values_ - if the field is not a PII field, and is a custom field, a scoped definition of values must be provided in order to prove that it's not PII. This values could be:
  * _range_ - a range of values, specified through 'min' and 'max' elements.
  `"valid_values": {
      "range" : {
          "min" : 0,
          "max" : 100
      }
  }`

  * _date_ - a date format that this field should follow. Eg: 'iso', 'yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss'
  `"valid_values": {
      "date" : "iso"
  }`

* _source_ - the path and transformations to be applied to the reported value to match the API standards.
  * _lookup_ - expects the source path of the reported field, using json path if the source_data_type is json: for multiple elements the [*] notation must be used; for each nesting level, the depth is specified using a period (.). In this case, the element 'test_result' has a field named 'conditions' that contains an array, and for every element of this array, the element 'name' is taken.
  `"source" : {
      "lookup" : "test_result.conditions[*].name"
  }`

  * _map_ - expects the element to transform as the first parameter and an array of transformations as the second one. If a match applies, the result will be the output specified. Wildcards are specified as '*'.
  `"source" : {
      "map": [
          {"lookup" : "conditions[*].condition"},
          [
              {"match": "*MTB*", "output" : "MTB"},
              {"match": "*FLU*", "output" : "H1N1"},
              {"match": "*FLUA*", "output" : "A1N1"}
          ]
      ]
  }`

  * _convert_time_ - it will convert a numeric time from a given time unit to another one specified. The source time unit is expected first. Possible units are: years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds, milliseconds. When reducing the unit precision, no rounding will be made. When converting from days to years, all years will be considered as 365.25 days long. When converting from days to months, all months will be considered as 30 days long.
  `"source" : {
      "convert_time" : [{"path" : "patient_information.age_in_years"}, "years", "days"]
  }`

  * _beginning_of_ [year, month] - Useful for date related PII, it converts a date into a less specific time span. Expects the value as the first parameter, and the time unit as the second one.
  `"source" : {
      "beginning_of" : [{"lookup" : "patient_information.age"}, "month"]
  }`

  * _milliseconds_between_ / _hours_between_ / _minutes_between_ / _seconds_between_ / _years_between_ / _months_between_ / _days_between_ - measures the number of milliseconds, hours, years, etc. between two given dates. Useful to compute ages or test durations. It will allways round to the smallest value.
  `"source" : {
      "years_between" : [
          {"lookup" : "patient_information.birth_date"},
          {"lookup" : "test_information.run_at"}
      ]
  }`

  * _clusterise_ - given an array of steps and a number, it returns the bucket that contains it. The lower boundary will allways be zero and the upper bucket will allways contain all the values that are greater or equal the last step value. The step value will allways be the greater value of the generated cluster. In the following example, the buckets created will be: "0-5", "6-15", "16-45", "46+"
  `"source" : {
      "clusterise" : [
          {"lookup" : "patient_information.age_in_years"},
          [5,15,45]
      ]
  }`

  * _substring_ - it extracts the string in the specified positions. Negative values are counted from the end of the string being -1 the last element. The given example will return the original string untouched.
  `"source" : {
      "substring" : [{"lookup" : "test_information.assay_code"}, 0, -1]
  }`

  * _concat_ - expects two or more parameters and returns a string containing all the parameters joined
  `"source" : {
      "concat" : [
          {"lookup" : "patient_information.last_name"},
          ", ",
          {"lookup" : "patient_information.first_name"}
      ]
  }`

  * _strip_ - removes trailing spaces from the given parameter
  `"source" : {
      "strip" : {"lookup" : "patient_information.last_name"}
  }`

  * _parse_date_ - parse the value of the field using the specified format for further processing. Eg: 'iso', 'yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss'. If the value is to be stored as a date, there is no need to parse it. This is useful when the result is a calculation that must be applied to a given date in a strange format.
  `"source" : {
      "parse_date" : [{"lookup" : "patient_information.birth_date"}, "%d-%m-%Y %I:%M:%S %p"]
  }`

## Implementation Specific Field Mapping Metadata

Manifests support implementation specific metadata at the field level. Such metadata is ignored by reference implementations, but could be of use for specific ones. 

Implementation specific field mapping metadata can be included simply by adding a non-standard key-value pair to the root level of a field mapping. Implementation specific keys MUST NOT override the standard field mapping elements listed above.

Implementation specific keys can be anything, but we SUGGEST to prefix them with *x-*, which makes it easier to distinguish standard field mapping elements from ad hoc ones.

As an example, let's say there's a need to treat some fields as _Maximum Security_, which has certain implications for a particular implementation. An *x-max_security* field could be added to those fields as shown below:

```
{
  ...
  source: { ... }
  valid_values: { ... }
  x-max_security: true
  ...
}
```

Given this manifest, standard manifest processors MAY ignore *x_max_security*, but they WON'T fail because of it. It's then up to each implementation to provide a specific (still compliant) processor that knows what to do when a mapping includes *x-max_security*.


# Reserved fields

The following fields are automatically generated by cdx and will be overwritten by the platform at the time of indexing the test.

* uuid - an automatically generated uuid to unequivocally identify the event in cdx
* device_uuid - The uuid that identifies the device in cdx
* laboratory_id - the internal id of the laboratory where the device is located.
* institution_id - the internal id of the institution created in cdx
* _location_, _admin_level_, _parent_locations_, and _location_id_ - They will be filled with the location information of the laboratory where the device is located.
* created_at - The creation timestamp in cdx
* updated_at - The last update timestamp in cdx (if two tests are reported with the same device_id, this field will be updated)

If the device can report from multiple laboratories, the laboratory_id will be null, and the location will be the common root of the laboratory's locations.

# Required fields

There are no required fields in cdx. Nevertheless, there are some fields that will be used by the query api. Therefore, in order to allow further querying, it's necessary that those fields are filled with the information provided by the device, curated and standarized to have a unique representation of each concept.

* _event_id_ - The id of the event generated by the device. If two tests are reported with the same id, the first will be updated by the second. - numeric or string.
* _system_user_ - The user running the tests. - string.
* _device_serial_number_ - The serial number of the device, identifiable in any external system. If the device does not provide the serial number on each run, it can be preloaded and then it should be automatically filled by cdx. - string
* _error_code_ - The error code reported by the device - string
* _error_description_ - User friendly error description - string
* _age_ - The age of the patient at the moment of the test - integer
* _age_group_ The age group that the patient belongs - string
* _assay_name_ - The code name of the assay used in the test. - string
* _gender_ - The gender of the patient. - enum: male / female / unknown
* _ethnicity_ - The ethnicity of the patient. - enum: hispanic / not_hispanic / unknown
* _race_ - The race of the patient. - enum: black_or_african_american / american_indian_or_alaska_native / asian_native_hawaiian_or_other_pacific_islander / white / other / unknown
* _race_ethnicity_ - A combination of race and ethnicity. - enum: hispanic / black_or_african_american / american_indian_or_alaska_native / asian_native_hawaiian_or_other_pacific_islander / white / other / unknown
* _status_ - The status of the event. - enum: ok / error / invalid / no_result / unknown
* _test_type_ - If the test is from a real sample or if it's just a quality control test. - enum: specimen / qc.
* _results_ - A single test can contain multiple sub tests, for each test, a result and a condition must be specified.
  * _result_ - The result of the test ran. This field has a target_field name "results[*].result". - enum: positive / negative / indeterminate / unknown / ...
  * _condition_ - The name of the condition being tested. This field has a target_field name "results[*].condition". - enum: mtb / h1n1 / ...

All field values must be encoded using lowercase_characters_separated_with_underscores.

All this fields must have "core" and "indexed" fields set to true, and "pii" set to false.

# Custom Fields

If the device reports additional information that is necessary for further analysis, it should be included in the manifest definition.

This fields can be indexed or not, depending on whether the value is something that can be drawn in a chart or something that can be useful to diagnose a particular issue or to improve some diagnostic on a particular case. An example of indexed fields could be the ambient temperature at the time of running the test. An example of a non indexed custom field could be the raw result information that the device generates before process it into a more compact diagnose.

If the field should be indexed, it must have "core" and "pii" fields set to false, and "indexed" field set to true.

If the field shouldn't be indexed, it must have "core", "pii" and "indexed" fields set to false.

# Personally Identifiable Information

The device can report information that allows the test to be linked with the patient. This information must be kept encrypted and must not be indexed. Therefore, all PII must have "pii" field set to true and "indexed" field set to false. The "core" field value will be ignored.

